# SpectrinTetramerStretch
 Measure the force exerted on the endpoints of a spectrin tetramer when kept a constant distance apart at thermal equilibrium

 Let ```*``` refer to the Alpha/Beta gene that encodes a spectrin. 
 
 ```proto*.txt``` refers to the an initial prototype structure for the spectrin filament. The endpoint particles have the same relative position, while the internal particles have randomized positions. These prototype structures then undergo an energy minimization, with the endpoint particles kept stationary. After re-centering the center-of-geometry, the coordinates of the minimized structure is then saved as the production model to be used for NVT stretching, as ```production*.txt```

 ```*Coeffs.data``` is a LAMMPS data file that contains the per-type masses and bond/angle coeffs for ```*```. The bond/angle coeffs were obtained from inverse sampling of the Boltzmann distribution of the mean-square-displacement of the all-atom domains, at thermal equilibrium with 310 K, that correspond to the particles that comprise a given bond/angle. This procedure was executed using CGTools from VMD.

 ```*Stretch.lammps``` is a LAMMPS input script for measuring force-displacement for ```*```. First, ```production*.txt``` is loaded in as a molecule template, with corresponding force field styles specified. Next, multiple copies of the molecule are spawned randomly, with a uniform distribution, throughout the simulation box volume. Then, ```*Coeffs.data``` is loaded in to assign the coeffs for the force field of the molecule. Afterwards, the endpoint particles of each copy of the molecule are displaced a certain distance in the y-direction, followed by a short energy minimization (with the endpoint particles kept stationary). Finally, the system is ready for molecular dynamics, where NVT time-integration is done only on the internal particles - this ensures that the endpoint particles are kept stationary throughout the whole run (the system still keeps track of the forces exerted on the endpoint particles even if they are not subject to time-integration).

 The output of ```*Stretch.lammps``` can be found in the ```out``` subdirectory of the corresponding ```*SpectrinStretch``` directory. The output files are of the following format: ```observable.dispRatio.txt```, where ```observable``` corresponds to a physical quantity of interest (e.g. temperature, tension force), and ```dispRatio``` is a float representing the displacement ratio for which the endpoints of ```*``` have undergone.
